README.md, before:

[![Build Status][travis-img]][travis]

Prototype implementation of the console daemon described at:

<https://github.com/CCI-MOC/hil/issues/417#issuecomment-303564763>

The details of the API differ slightly from what is describe there. This
document provides an up-to-date description of the server's use. The
intended audience is familiar with current HIL internals; we will likely
change the explanations to avoid this prerequisite in the future.

# Configuration

A config file is needed, whose contents should look like:


```json
{
	"DBType":     	"sqlite3",
	"DBPath":     	"./obmd.db",
	"ListenAddr": 	":8080",
	"AdminToken": 	"44d5ebcb1aae23bfefc8dca8314797eb",
	"TLSCert":	"server.crt",
	"TLSKey":	"server.key"
}
```

The choices for database type are `sqlite3` and `postgres`.
If using postgres, the DBPath string might look like:

	"host=localhost port=5432 user=username password=pass dbname=obmd"

The admin token should be a (cryptographically randomly generated)
128-bit value encoded in hexadecimal. You can generate such a token by
running:

    ./console-service -gen-token

By default, OBMd listens for connections via https. While production
environments should *never* change this, it can be convenient for
development to make OBMd listen via plaintext http. To do this, add an
option `"Insecure": true` in the config file, and remove the `TLSCert`
and `TLSKey` options.

By default, the server looks for the config file at `./config.json`, but
the `-config` command line option can be used to override this.

# Api

The server provides a simple REST api. Most operations are "admin"
operations. This file describes the api in a similar format to that used
by `docs/rest_api.md` in the HIL source tree.

## Admin Operations

Each admin operation requires the client to authenticate using basic
auth, with a username of "admin" and a password equal to the
"AdminToken" in the config file.

### Registering a node

`PUT /node/{node_id}`

Request body:

```json
{
    "type": "ipmi",
    "info": {
        "addr": "10.0.0.4",
        "user": "ipmiuser",
        "pass": "ipmipass"
    }
}
```

Notes:

* The above is for ipmi controllers; right now this is the only
  "real" driver, but there are other possible values of `"type"`
  that are used for testing/development. For those, see the
  relevant source under `./internal/driver`.
* The `node_id` is an arbitrary label.
* The fields in the `info` field are passed directly to ipmitool
* If the node already exists, this will return an error. To change
  the info for a node, you must delete it and re-register it.

### Unregistering a node

`DELETE /node/{node_id}`.

Notes:

* This implicitly invalidates any active tokens.

### Getting a new console token

Request body:

`POST /node/{node_id}/token`

Response body:

```json
{
    "token": "6119cdf777334998d7068dece09069b8"
}
```

Notes:

* The token in a successful response is to be used to authenticate
  non-admin operations, described below.

### Invalidating a console token

`DELETE /node/{node_id}/token`

Notes:

* This operation always returns a successful error code (assuming the
  user authenticates correctly); if there is no existing valid token for
  the node, this is a no-op.

## Non-admin operations

Each non-admin operation requires a `token` parameter in the query
string, like:

`GET /url/for/operation?token={token}`

Where `{token}` is fetched as described above. This parameter is not
explicitly mentioned in each of the descriptions below.

### Viewing the console

`GET /node/{node_id}/console`

Notes:

* Data from the console will begin streaming from the response body, and
  continue doing so until the connection is closed.

### Rebooting a node

`POST /node/{node_id}/power_cycle`

Request body:

```json
{
    "force": true
}
```

Power cycle the given node.

Notes:

* If `"force"` is set to `true`, The node will be forced off. Otherwise,
  the node will be sent an ACPI shutdown request, which the operating
  system may respond to.
* If the node is powered off, this will turn it on.

### Powering on a node

`POST /node/{node_id}/power_on`

Notes:

* Powers on the node. If the node is already powered on, this will
  have no effect.

### Powering off a node

`POST /node/{node_id}/power_off`

Notes:

* Powers off the node. If the node is already powered off, this will
  have no effect.

### Setting the boot device

`PUT /node/{node_id}/boot_device`

Request body:

```json
{
    "bootdev": "disk"
}
```

Notes:

* This sets the node's boot device persistently.
* The set of legal values for `"bootdev"` depends on the type of OBM.
* For IPMI devices, the legal values are:
  * `"pxe"`: Do a PXE (network) boot.
  * `"disk"`: Boot from local hard disk.
  * `"none"`: Reset boot order to default.

### Checking a node's power status

`GET /node/{node_id}/power_status`

Response body:

```json
{
    "power_status": "<IPMI chassis power status response>"
}
```

Notes:

* Returns a JSON string that describes the node's power state.
* Response examples: "on" or "off"

[net.Dial]: https://golang.org/pkg/net/#Dial
[travis]: https://travis-ci.org/CCI-MOC/obmd
[travis-img]: https://travis-ci.org/CCI-MOC/obmd.svg?branch=master

Commit message:

Sanity check config file for insufficiently restrictive permissions.

README.md, after:

[![Build Status][travis-img]][travis]

Prototype implementation of the console daemon described at:

<https://github.com/CCI-MOC/hil/issues/417#issuecomment-303564763>

The details of the API differ slightly from what is describe there. This
document provides an up-to-date description of the server's use. The
intended audience is familiar with current HIL internals; we will likely
change the explanations to avoid this prerequisite in the future.

# Configuration

A config file is needed, whose contents should look like:


```json
{
	"DBType":     	"sqlite3",
	"DBPath":     	"./obmd.db",
	"ListenAddr": 	":8080",
	"AdminToken": 	"44d5ebcb1aae23bfefc8dca8314797eb",
	"TLSCert":	"server.crt",
	"TLSKey":	"server.key"
}
```

The choices for database type are `sqlite3` and `postgres`.
If using postgres, the DBPath string might look like:

	"host=localhost port=5432 user=username password=pass dbname=obmd"

The admin token should be a (cryptographically randomly generated)
128-bit value encoded in hexadecimal. You can generate such a token by
running:

    ./console-service -gen-token

By default, OBMd listens for connections via https. While production
environments should *never* change this, it can be convenient for
development to make OBMd listen via plaintext http. To do this, add an
option `"Insecure": true` in the config file, and remove the `TLSCert`
and `TLSKey` options.

By default, the server looks for the config file at `./config.json`, but
the `-config` command line option can be used to override this. OBMd
will refuse to run if the file's permissions are such that any use other
than the owner may access the file; this is a sanity check for insecure
configurations, as the file contains sensitive information.

# Api

The server provides a simple REST api. Most operations are "admin"
operations. This file describes the api in a similar format to that used
by `docs/rest_api.md` in the HIL source tree.

## Admin Operations

Each admin operation requires the client to authenticate using basic
auth, with a username of "admin" and a password equal to the
"AdminToken" in the config file.

### Registering a node

`PUT /node/{node_id}`

Request body:

```json
{
    "type": "ipmi",
    "info": {
        "addr": "10.0.0.4",
        "user": "ipmiuser",
        "pass": "ipmipass"
    }
}
```

Notes:

* The above is for ipmi controllers; right now this is the only
  "real" driver, but there are other possible values of `"type"`
  that are used for testing/development. For those, see the
  relevant source under `./internal/driver`.
* The `node_id` is an arbitrary label.
* The fields in the `info` field are passed directly to ipmitool
* If the node already exists, this will return an error. To change
  the info for a node, you must delete it and re-register it.

### Unregistering a node

`DELETE /node/{node_id}`.

Notes:

* This implicitly invalidates any active tokens.

### Getting a new console token

Request body:

`POST /node/{node_id}/token`

Response body:

```json
{
    "token": "6119cdf777334998d7068dece09069b8"
}
```

Notes:

* The token in a successful response is to be used to authenticate
  non-admin operations, described below.

### Invalidating a console token

`DELETE /node/{node_id}/token`

Notes:

* This operation always returns a successful error code (assuming the
  user authenticates correctly); if there is no existing valid token for
  the node, this is a no-op.

## Non-admin operations

Each non-admin operation requires a `token` parameter in the query
string, like:

`GET /url/for/operation?token={token}`

Where `{token}` is fetched as described above. This parameter is not
explicitly mentioned in each of the descriptions below.

### Viewing the console

`GET /node/{node_id}/console`

Notes:

* Data from the console will begin streaming from the response body, and
  continue doing so until the connection is closed.

### Rebooting a node

`POST /node/{node_id}/power_cycle`

Request body:

```json
{
    "force": true
}
```

Power cycle the given node.

Notes:

* If `"force"` is set to `true`, The node will be forced off. Otherwise,
  the node will be sent an ACPI shutdown request, which the operating
  system may respond to.
* If the node is powered off, this will turn it on.

### Powering on a node

`POST /node/{node_id}/power_on`

Notes:

* Powers on the node. If the node is already powered on, this will
  have no effect.

### Powering off a node

`POST /node/{node_id}/power_off`

Notes:

* Powers off the node. If the node is already powered off, this will
  have no effect.

### Setting the boot device

`PUT /node/{node_id}/boot_device`

Request body:

```json
{
    "bootdev": "disk"
}
```

Notes:

* This sets the node's boot device persistently.
* The set of legal values for `"bootdev"` depends on the type of OBM.
* For IPMI devices, the legal values are:
  * `"pxe"`: Do a PXE (network) boot.
  * `"disk"`: Boot from local hard disk.
  * `"none"`: Reset boot order to default.

### Checking a node's power status

`GET /node/{node_id}/power_status`

Response body:

```json
{
    "power_status": "<IPMI chassis power status response>"
}
```

Notes:

* Returns a JSON string that describes the node's power state.
* Response examples: "on" or "off"

[net.Dial]: https://golang.org/pkg/net/#Dial
[travis]: https://travis-ci.org/CCI-MOC/obmd
[travis-img]: https://travis-ci.org/CCI-MOC/obmd.svg?branch=master
